I spent the past 12 months testing over
a 100 AI tools to grow my YouTube
channel. But out of all these tools I
tested, only five came out as staples
that I use every single day in my video
production process. So, if you're
struggling to get views or you're just
spending too much time creating content,
this video is for you. I want to
categorize these five tools according to
number one, picking a niche. Number two,
ideation and script writing. Number
three, producing a video. And number
four, actually editing the video. The
most important part of starting a
YouTube channel is picking a niche.
Because if you pick a niche that's too
small, you won't get any views. But if
you pick a niche that's too big and with
the wrong audience, you may get a ton of
views, but you won't actually make any
money. One thing that most beginner
creators get wrong is that they'll just
go and pick a niche that they're
interested in. They don't actually
research how much money that they can
make in a given niche. Are there any
other winning channels within this
niche? And whether there's actually
longevity in the channel. That's where
the tool Nixv comes in. Nigv is an AI
powered YouTube platform that helps
creators find profitable niches, find
keywords, discover new channels across a
database of 150,000 plus YouTube
channels. What I personally love about
this tool is that it automates niche
discovery and analysis process. It helps
predict trends, monitor niche saturation
levels, and it has 21 plus unique
filters for discovering profitable
channels. They also have a Chrome
extension which allows you to find
similar channels to your competitors so
that you can spy on them. So, for
example, if you wanted to find all of
the channels within the business niche,
you could go to a big business creator,
for example, Alexozi, go click similar
channels, do an in-depth search, and
it'll immediately pull up tons of
channels with a similar audience to Alex
Moszi. And then you can spy on those
channels. And you can go even deeper by
looking at those channels, searching for
similar channels to those channels, and
then finding even more competitors that
way. And then you can also spy on how
each channel is doing. You can see how
many views that they're getting monthly.
You can see how much money they're
making, what their RPM is, so that you
can decide what niche to get into. Other
great features of the Chrome extension
is that you can download a transcript,
download thumbnails, and really just
makes the overall YouTube experience a
lot more enjoyable. It's really the
small things that the Niglive Chrome
extension really helps with that adds to
your entire YouTube experience being
something super pleasurable. Now, of
course, if you were to look around and
look for competitors, there'll be dozens
that are way cheaper than Nyx Lev, but
the most difficult part of running a
software like Nexv is having all of the
data aggregated in one place. And
because Nicks left has so many Chrome
extension users and so many of the main
app users, it has all of this data so
that when it comes together, number one,
the actual data that it serves you is
accurate. The RPMs are very accurate to
what YouTube gives it and the loading
speed is a lot faster. And really next
Lev is only able to achieve this because
it has number one a ton of engineers
behind it and number two it has all of
the data points so that it can give you
actual accurate data which in my opinion
is the most important because at the end
of the day Nixv is a data and a research
tool and it's only with this accurate
data that you can pick a niche correctly
and start winning on YouTube. Okay, so
now you've used Nyx Lev to find a killer
niche, but you're completely screwed if
you don't know how to come up with ideas
or write a killer script. That's where
this next tool comes in. Everyone knows
that coming up with the video idea is
the most important part of a YouTube
video. Even Mr. Beast knows this.
>> You realize that like the idea is so
freaking important. Like you could
theoretically most YouTubers watching
this, you could pull triple the views
with half the work if you just had
better ideas. Like no joke, it's it's
that extreme.
>> And then once you have the video idea,
most creators spend all of their time
writing the actual script of the video
because the words that you say will
determine the performance of the video,
even more so than the edit. And if
you're like most creators these days and
have ADHD, you won't have the attention
span to sit down for more than 5 minutes
to actually write your script. So they
have a couple options from here. Number
one, they have an inconsistent posing
schedule. Or number two, you do what
most of the cool kids are doing these
days and which is using AI. They'll try
using ChBT or Claw, but their scripts
end up sounding generic. But with this
AI script writing tool, Subscriber, it
simplifies the entire writing process.
Subscriber is an AI powered script
writing platform that is specifically
trained on thousands of videos of
YouTube data. Subscriber will analyze
your channel and your voice and create
customized scripts that are designed to
go viral. Unlike the writing of
Chetchvt, Subscriber is actually trained
on 5,000 plus pieces of viral content.
So, it knows exactly what works on
YouTube, what doesn't work on YouTube,
the retention techniques, and the
storytelling techniques that makes a
video go viral. It takes you from having
no idea what video to make to having a
complete script. literally handholds you
through the entire process. I've
personally used this to write scripts
that have gotten over 500,000 views. My
personal favorite feature of Subscriber
is the ideation chatbot. Let's say I
really like Imangaji's titles and I want
to remix it for my channel. I can go to
the ideation chatbot and say, "Hey, I
really like atangaji's video ideas. I
want to remix some of them for my
YouTube channel at Boomer Brian. Give me
10 video ideas based on the biggest
outliers on Iman's channel in the past
12 months." and instantly it will give
me a ton of video ideas that I can
choose for for my next video. You can go
back and forth with the ideation chatbot
until you have an idea that you're
really really happy about and then you
can turn that into a script. It's like
talking to a YouTube strategist that
you'd usually pay thousands of dollars
for, but in a chatbot. Let's say I
really like this video title. I can give
subscriber my YouTube channel and it
instantly analyzes my audience and my
voice so that it knows how to write for
me. And let's say your current YouTube
channel has no subscribers and your
voice doesn't exist. You can remix a
winning channel in your niche, tell it
what differences you want it to make,
and then it will steal that voice and
steal that audience and fine-tune it
towards your specific channel that you
want to make. So, for example, if you
like the scripts of the documentary
channel Fern, you can literally import
their videos onto your own channel, give
it a remix, and you'll be able to write
just for their channel and create your
own replicate channel if you'd like. For
a long time, I was hesitant on using AI
to write my scripts because I wasn't
sure whether it would match my voice or
my tone. But the cool thing about
Subscriber is that it has this advanced
feature that you can go in and fine-tune
your voice. You can literally change the
sentence length, the sentence structure,
your specific tonality, and even the
common phrases that you use. And once
you fine-tune your voice, you can go on
and create a script. All that I have to
do is give Subscriber a short prompt of
the video, click the type of video that
I'm trying to make, give it a length,
and it will instantly guide you through
writing the hook, selecting the payoffs,
fleshing out the script, and the best
part, Subscriber has a built-in script
editor. Basically, it's an AI that's
trained on editing the actual script.
So, there's an AI for creating the ideas
and then there's an AI for writing the
script and then there's an AI which
looks at the script and helps to edit it
based on what it knows is winning on
YouTube. If you're worried about whether
subscriber can write technical and niche
content for you, it actually has a
research phase where you can plug in
PDFs, videos, or even search certain
articles that you want so that it can be
trained on your niche knowledge. And
similarly, if you're writing with Chad
GBT or Claude, you don't want to feed
the AI too much information because if
you feed it too much information, it
will start to hallucinate because it
will not be sure what information to
pick from. Or it might even start coming
up with its own information. But if you
feed it just the right amount of
information, it will be able to take
that knowledge that you've given it and
turn it into a script that's number one
YouTube retention optimized and has
intriguing storytelling. And bang, in 12
minutes, you can go from having zero
idea what video to make to having a
fully written script. Honestly, I've
tested Chad GBT, Claude, Notebook, LM,
and all of these other writing models.
But subscriber wins because it is
trained on hours and hours and hours of
YouTube data. So, it knows exactly what
works on YouTube and how to create a
retention optimized YouTube script. So,
if you're writing scripts manually right
now and you want an AI to automate a
good chunk of the process for you,
Subscriber AI should be your go-to tool.
Okay, so now that you've gotten your
script, you need to actually record the
video. But these days, you don't really
have to get in front of the camera and
record because they are AI avatars that
have just become that good. Most AI
avatar sucks because you can still tell
whether it's an AI or whether it's a
human just by looking at the small
little details like the way that the
lips move, the way that the hand
gestures move, and the overall emotion
across camera. But I bet in 6 months,
you won't even be able to distinguish
between AI and human. Right now, most
people are using AI avatars for short
form content because in the 30 to
60second reel where the viewers are just
scrolling and brain rotting, they won't
really be able to tell. And with
YouTube, most people are still shying
away from using it in their content, but
I've identified two channels that are
absolutely crushing it with AI avatars
on their YouTube channel, namely Yuri,
who runs Roboverse and Ryan. These two
channels are super duper interesting.
They're making videos on these AI video
generators and they're getting tens of
thousands of views just because of the
interest around the topic. And the way
that they monetize is through affiliate
revenue and sponsorships from these
video generation tools. Super
interesting. And I think you can take
this exact playbook and apply it to any
niche out there. For AI avatar
generation, they use argill.ai. And for
voice generation, they're using 11 labs.
With Argill, with only 2 minutes of
training data, you can really fine-tune
an AI model to look exactly like you.
The key of the training data is that you
want to use a high quality camera like
the Sony FX3. And you want to make sure
you have good lighting in your face in a
nice studio. With a couple rounds of
fine-tuning with different rounds of
training data, you should be able to
find an AI avatar with good lighting in
your face, nice lighting, and a nice
studio background. I've personally also
tested Casia, Hen, and DID. While
Cantasia and Hunen are pretty good in
terms of AI avatars, Argill still comes
out on top because of how hyperrealistic
the hand gestures are. And overall, it's
much harder to tell that it's an actual
AI avatar. And for voice generation,
while 11 Labs has been around for a long
time, it is still king. You can easily
train 11 Labs on your voice and it come
out really, really good. All you need to
do is take your existing video files and
upload it onto 11 Labs, and it can
immediately create a hyperrealistic
voice off. You listen to this. This is
my actual voice, and this is my AI voice
that only took me about a minute to make
within 11 Labs, which is pretty insane.
Okay, so now you've got the ideas and
you've got the scripts and you've got
the AI avatar. Now it's time to automate
the most painful part of the entire
video generation process, editing.
Cutting out all the ums, a parts where
you lost your train of thought is the
most painful process in all of YouTube.
My editor probably does around 200 plus
cuts per video to make me sound
coherent. And that's why the next tool
is Gling, which is an AI powered video
editor for creators to cut out
background noises, silent moments, bad
takes, and filler words. It also
includes AI captions, automated zoom in
and outs, noise removal, and title and
chapter generation. One of my favorite
features of Gling is that when you
upload a video, it immediately
transcribes it. And you can do textbased
video editing. Basically, how you would
normally edit a script on a Google doc,
you can do the exact same thing on a
video editor. You can just edit the
transcript and it will cut up the pieces
of content accordingly. Really, this
tool is really great because it saves
you a ton of time on your first pass of
editing. I personally also tested Dcript
and Wondershare. And while they're both
great for editing workflows, I've
personally found Gling to be the fastest
and the most accurate when doing up
simple cuts. So, who can use this? If
you're doing talking head content and
you need simple raw cuts, Gling is for
you. But if you're doing more high
produced content that requires crazy
animations or complex editing, you
probably still need a traditional video
editor for that. Right now, there isn't
an AI powered video editing tool. Can do
all of these crazy animations, can do
all of these crazy B-roll. The closest
thing that we have to that is the V3
model and Midjourney that's able to
create B-roll for your videos where you
would normally use stock footage. Okay,
so just to recap the tools that we're
using for niche finding, we're using
NextLev. For ideation and script
writing, we're using subscriber.ai. For
video avatar generation, we're using
Argo.ai and 11 Labs for voice
generation. And lastly, we're using
Gling for video editing. Now, having all
these tools is cool and all, but this is
where most creators make the biggest
mistake. They go out there and try all
of these different AI tools trying to
automate every single part of their
workflow, but they're missing one
crucial factor, and it's that he who
chases two rabbits chases none. That
means if you go out there and try all of
these tools, you're going a mile wide,
but an inch deep. Instead, what you want
to do is audit your current workflow to
see what you're currently spending hours
and hours and hours doing and see what
you can automate from there. So, for
example, if the longest part of your
workflow is YouTube script writing, you
can use a tool like Subscriber to
automate a big chunk of that, save you
2, 3, 4, 5 hours that you can use to go
spend time with your family or create
other types of videos. You don't want to
automate what you're not already doing.
You only want to automate things that
are taking up a large chunk of your
time. Now, it doesn't matter if you know
what the best tools out there to create
content are if you don't actually
understand what makes good content
viral. That's why I created a master
class teaching you how to go from idea
to research to a fully written script
that can actually go viral and get you
your first 100,000 subscribers. Click on
this video over here and I'll see you in
the next